HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
  The patient is a 17-year-old female, who presents to the emergency room with foreign body and airway compromise and was taken to the operating room.  She was intubated and fishbone.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 
 Significant for diabetes, hypertension, asthma, cholecystectomy, and total hysterectomy and cataract.
ALLERGIES:  
No known drug allergies.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: 
 Prevacid, Humulin, Diprivan, Proventil, Unasyn, and Solu-Medrol.
FAMILY HISTORY: 
 Noncontributory.


SOCIAL HISTORY: 
 Negative for illicit drugs, alcohol, and tobacco.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  
Please see the hospital chart.
LABORATORY DATA: 
 Please see the hospital chart.
HOSPITAL COURSE: 
 The patient was taken to the operating room by Dr. X who is covering for ENT and noted that she had airway compromise and a rather large fishbone noted and that was removed.  The patient was intubated and it was felt that she should be observed to see if the airway would improve upon which she could be extubated.  If not she would require tracheostomy.  The patient was treated with IV antibiotics and ventilatory support and at the time of this dictation, she has recently been taken to the operating room where it was felt that the airway sufficient and she was extubated.  She was doing well with good p.o.s, good airway, good voice, and desiring to be discharged home.  So, the patient is being prepared for discharge at this point.  We will have Dr. X evaluate her before she leaves to make sure I do not have any problem with her going home.  Dr. Y feels she could be discharged today and will have her return to see him in a week.








About This Sample:

              This 
Airway Compromise & Foreign Body - ER Visit
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, 
diabetes
, 
hypertension
, 
asthma
, 
cholecystectomy
, fishbone, 
foreign body
, airway compromise, 
airway












 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples