CHIEF COMPLAINT:
  Cut on foot.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
  This is a 32-year-old male who had a piece of glass fall on to his right foot today.  The patient was concerned because of the amount of bleeding that occurred with it.  The bleeding has been stopped and the patient does not have any pain.  The patient has normal use of his foot, there is no numbness or weakness, the patient is able to ambulate well without any discomfort.  The patient denies any injuries to any other portion of his body.  He has not had any recent illness.  The patient has no other problems or complaints.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
  Asthma.
CURRENT MEDICATION: 
 Albuterol.
ALLERGIES:
  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.


SOCIAL HISTORY: 
 The patient is a smoker.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
  VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 98.8 oral, blood pressure 132/86, pulse is 76, and respirations 16.  Oxygen saturation is 100% on room air and interpreted as normal.  CONSTITUTIONAL:  The patient is well-nourished, well-developed, the patient appears to be healthy.  The patient is calm and comfortable in no acute distress and looks well.  The patient is pleasant and cooperative.  HEENT:  Head is atraumatic, normocephalic, and nontender.  Eyes are normal with clear conjunctiva and cornea bilaterally.  NECK:  Supple with full range of motion.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Peripheral pulse is +2 to the right foot.  Capillary refills less than two seconds to all the digits of the right foot.  RESPIRATIONS:  No shortness of breath.  MUSCULOSKELETAL:  The patient has a 4-mm partial thickness laceration to the top of the right foot and about the area of the mid foot.  There is no palpable foreign body, no foreign body is visualized.  There is no active bleeding, there is no exposed deeper tissues and certainly no exposed tendons, bone, muscle, nerves, or vessels.  It appears that the laceration may have nicked a small varicose vein, which would have accounted for the heavier than usual bleeding that currently occurred at home.  The patient does not have any tenderness to the foot.  The patient has full range of motion to all the joints, all the toes, as well as the ankles.  The patient ambulates well without any difficulty or discomfort.  There are no other injuries noted to the rest of the body.  SKIN:  The 4-mm partial thickness laceration to the right foot as previously described.  No other injuries are noted.  NEUROLOGIC:  Motor is 5/5 to all the muscle groups of the right lower extremity.  Sensory is intact to light touch to all the dermatomes of the right foot.  The patient has normal speech and normal ambulation.  PSYCHIATRIC:  The patient is alert and oriented x4.  Normal mood and affect.  HEMATOLOGIC/LYMPHATIC:  No active bleeding is occurring at this time.  No evidence of bruising is noted to the body.
EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE:
  The patient had antibiotic ointment and a bandage applied to his foot.
DIAGNOSES:
1.  A 4-MM LACERATION TO THE RIGHT FOOT.
2.  ACUTE RIGHT FOOT PAIN, NOW RESOLVED.


CONDITION UPON DISPOSITION: 
 Stable.
DISPOSITION:
  To home.  The patient was given discharge instructions on wound care and asked to return to emergency room should he have any evidence or signs and symptoms of infection.  The patient was precautioned that there may still be a small piece of glass retained in the foot and that there is a possibility of infection or that the piece of glass may be extruded later on.








About This Sample:

              This 
Cut on Foot - ER Visit
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, 
foot pain
, cut on foot, piece of glass, 
foreign body
, active bleeding, 
foot
, 
injuries
, 
atraumatic
, 
laceration
, 
bleeding
, 
body












 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples