HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
  The patient is a two-and-a-half-month-old male who has been sick for the past three to four days.  His mother has described congested sounds with cough and decreased appetite.  He has had no fever.  He has had no rhinorrhea.  Nobody else at home is currently ill.  He has no cigarette smoke exposure.  She brought him to the emergency room this morning after a bad coughing spell.  He did not have any apnea during this episode.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
  Unremarkable.  He has had his two-month immunizations.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 99.1, oxygen saturations 98%, respirations by the nurse at 64, however, at my examination was much slower and regular in the 40s.
GENERAL:  Sleeping, easily aroused, smiling, and in no distress.
HEENT:  Soft anterior fontanelle.  TMs are normal.  Moist mucous membranes.
LUNGS:  Equal and clear.
CHEST:  Without retraction.


HEART:  Regular in rate and rhythm without murmur.
ABDOMEN:  Benign.
DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES:
  Chest x-ray ordered by ER physician is unremarkable, but to me also.
ASSESSMENT:
  Upper respiratory infection.
TREATMENT: 
 Use the bulb syringe and saline nose drops if there is any mucus in the anterior nares.  Smaller but more frequent feeds.  Discuss proper sleeping position.  Recheck if there is any fever or if he is no better in the next three days.








About This Sample:

              This 
ER Report - URI
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, 
er
, 
uri
, 
emergency room
, 
upper respiratory infection
, 
respiratory
, 
sick
, 
fever
, 
chest
, 
            










 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples