CHIEF COMPLAINT: 
 Headache.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
  This is a 16-year-old white female who presents here to the emergency department in a private auto with her mother for evaluation of headache.  She indicates intense constant right frontal headache, persistent since onset early on Monday, now more than 48 hours ago.  Indicates pressure type of discomfort with throbbing component.  It is as high as a 9 on a 0 to 10 scale of intensity.  She denies having had similar discomfort in the past.  Denies any trauma.
Review of systems:  No fever or chills.  No sinus congestion or nasal drainage.  No cough or cold symptoms.  No head trauma.  Mild nausea.  No vomiting or diarrhea.  Other systems reviewed and are negative.
PMH: 
 Acne.  Psychiatric history is unremarkable.
PSH: 
 Right knee surgery.
SH: 
 The patient is single.  Living at home.  No smoking or alcohol.
FH: 
 Noncontributory.


ALLERGIES:  
No drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: 
 Accutane and Ovcon.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
VITALS:  Temperature of 97.8 degrees F., pulse of 80, respiratory rate of 16, and blood pressure is 131/96.
GENERAL:  This is a 16-year-old white female.  She is awake, alert, and oriented x3.  She does appear bit uncomfortable.
HEAD:  Normocephalic and atraumatic.
EYES:  The pupils were equal and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements are intact.


ENT:  TMs are clear.  Nose and throat are unremarkable.
NECK:  There is no evidence of nuchal rigidity.  She does, however, have notable tenderness and spasm of the right trapezius and rhomboid muscles when she extends up to the right paracervical muscles.  Palpation clearly causes having exacerbation of her discomfort.
CHEST:  Thorax is unremarkable.
GI:  Abdomen is nontender.
MUSCLES:  Extremities are unremarkable.
NEURO:  Cranial nerves II through XII are grossly intact.  Motor and sensory are grossly intact.  
SKIN:  Skin is warm and dry.
ED COURSE:
  The patient was given IV Norflex 60 mg, Zofran 4 mg, and morphine sulfate 4 mg and with that has significant improvement in her discomfort.


DIAGNOSES:
1.  Muscle tension cephalgia.
2.  Right trapezius and rhomboid muscle spasm.
PLAN: 
 Scripts were given for Darvocet-N 100 one every 4 to 6 hours #15, Soma one 4 times a day #20.  She was instructed to apply warm compresses and perform gentle massage.  Follow up with regular provider as needed.  Return if any problems.








About This Sample:

              This 
Headache - Emergency Visit
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, 
accutane
, 
cephalgia
, rhomboid muscle, frontal headache, muscle tension cephalgia, rhomboid muscle spasm, 
headache












 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples