EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE: 
 It was indicated to the parents that I would be repeating labs and also catheterize urine specimen.  Parents were made aware of the fact that child did have a murmur.  I spoke to Dr. X, who suggested doing an EKG, which was normal and since the patient will be admitted for hyperbilirubinemia, an echo could be done in the morning.  The case was discussed with Dr. Y and he will be admitting this child for hyperbilirubinemia.
CBC done showed a white count of 15,700, hemoglobin 18 gm%, hematocrit 50.6%, platelets 245,000, 10 bands, 44 segs, 34 lymphs, and 8 monos.  Chemistries done showed sodium of 142 mEq/L, potassium 4.5 mEq/L, chloride 104 mEq/L, CO2 28 mmol/L, glucose 75 mg%, BUN 8 mg%, creatinine 0.7 mg%, and calcium 8.0 mg%.  Total bilirubin was 25.4 mg, all of which was unconjugated.  CRP was 0.3 mg%.  Blood culture was drawn.  Catheterized urine specimen was normal.  Parents were kept abreast of what was going on all the time and the need for admission.  Phototherapy was instituted in the ER almost after the baby got to the emergency room.
IMPRESSION:
  Hyperbilirubinemia and heart murmur.
DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSES: 
 Considered breast milk, jaundice, ABO incompatibility, galactosemia, and ventricular septal defect.








About This Sample:

              This 
Hyperbilirubinemia - 4-day-old
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, 
hypoxia
, periodic breathing, 
heart murmur
, urine specimen, 
yellow
, 
bilirubin
, 
heart
, 
murmur
, hyperbilirubinemia
            










 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples