CHIEF COMPLAINT:
  Headache.
HPI: 
 This is a 24-year-old man who was seen here originally on the 13th with a headache and found to have a mass on CT scan.  He was discharged home with a follow up to neurosurgery on the 14th.  Apparently, an MRI the next day showed that the mass was an aneurysm and he is currently scheduled for an angiogram in preparation for surgery.  He has had headaches since the 13th and complains now of some worsening of his pain.  He denies photophobia, fever, vomiting, and weakness of the arms or legs.
PMH: 
 As above.
MEDS:
  Vicodin.
ALLERGIES:
  None.


PHYSICAL EXAM:  
BP 180/110 Pulse 65 RR 18 Temp 97.5.
Mr. P is awake and alert, in no apparent distress.
HEENT:  Pupils equal, round, reactive to light, oropharynx moist, sclera clear.  
Neck:  Supple, no meningismus.
Lungs:  Clear.
Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm, no murmur, gallop, or rub.  
Abdomen:  Benign.
Neuro:  Awake and alert, motor strength normal, no numbness, normal gait, DTRs normal.  Cranial nerves normal.  


COURSE IN THE ED:  
Patient had a repeat head CT to look for an intracranial bleed that shows an unchanged mass, no blood, and no hydrocephalus.  I recommended an LP but he prefers not to have this done.  He received morphine for pain and his headache improved.  I've recommended admission but he has chosen to go home and come back in the morning for his scheduled angiogram.  He left the ED against my advice.  
IMPRESSION: 
 Headache, improved.  Intracranial aneurysm.
PLAN: 
 The patient will return tomorrow am for his angiogram.








About This Sample:

              This 
Intracranial aneurysm - ER Visit
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, 
angiogram
, 
mass
, 
ct scan
, intracranial aneurysm, 
headache
, 
aneurysm
, 
intracranial












 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples