HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: 
 The patient is an 11-year-old male who was admitted from the ER after a CT scan suggested that the child had mastoiditis.  The child has had very severe ear pain and blood draining from the right ear.  The child had a temperature maximum of 101.4 in the ER.  The patient was admitted and started on IV Unasyn, which he tolerated well and required Morphine and Vicodin for pain control.  In the first 12 hours after admission, the patient's pain decreased and also swelling of his cervical area decreased.  The patient was evaluated by Dr. X from the ENT while in house.  After reviewing the CT scan, it was felt that the CT scan was not consistent with mastoiditis.  The child was continued on IV fluid and narcotics for pain as well as Unasyn until the time of discharge.  At the time of discharge his pain is markedly decreased about 2/10 and swelling in the area has improved.  The patient is also able to take p.o. well.
DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL:  The patient is alert, in no respiratory distress.
VITAL SIGNS:  His temperature is 97.6, heart rate 83, blood pressure 105/57, respiratory rate 16 on room air.


HEENT:  Right ear shows no redness.  The area behind his ear is nontender.  There is a large posterior chains node that is nontender and the swelling in this area has decreased markedly.
NECK:  Supple.
CHEST:  Clear breath sounds.
CARDIAC:  Normal S1, S2 without murmur.
ABDOMEN:  Soft.  There is no hepatosplenomegaly or tenderness.
SKIN:  Warm and well perfused.
DISCHARGE WEIGHT: 
 38.7 kg.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: 
 Good.


DISCHARGE DIET:
  Regular as tolerated.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  
1.  Ciprodex Otic Solution in the right ear twice daily.
2.  Augmentin 500 mg three times daily x10 days.
FOLLOW UP:  
1.  Dr. Y in one week (ENT).
2.  The primary care physician in 2 to 3 days.


TIME SPENT: 
 Approximate discharge time is 28 minutes.








About This Sample:

              This 
Mastoiditis - Discharge Summary
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, 
acute otitis media
, 
ear pain
, mastoiditis, 
otitis media
, 
discharge
, 
ear












 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples