HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
  A 14-day-old was seen by private doctor because of blister.  On Friday, she was noted to have a small blister near her umbilicus.  They went to their doctor on Saturday, culture was drawn.  It came back today, growing MRSA.  She has been doing well.  They put her on bacitracin ointment near the umbilicus.  That has about healed up.  However today, they noticed a small blister on her left temporal area.  They called the private doctor.  They direct called the Infectious Disease doctor here and was asked that they come into the hospital.  Mom states she has been diagnosed with MRSA on her buttocks as well and is on some medications.  The child has not had any fever.  She has not been lethargic or irritable.  She has been eating well up to 2 ounces every feed.  Eating well and sleeping well.  No other changes have been noted.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
  She was born full term.  No complications.  Home with mom.  No hospitalization, surgeries, allergies.
MEDICATIONS: 
 As noted.
IMMUNIZATIONS: 
 Up-to-date.
FAMILY HISTORY: 
 Negative.


SOCIAL HISTORY: 
 No ill contacts.  No travel or changes in living condition.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  
Ten systems were asked, all of them were negative except as noted above.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  
GENERAL:  Awake, alert female, no acute distress at this time.
HEENT:  Fontanelle soft and flat.  PERRLA.  EOMI.  Conjunctivae are clear.  TMS are clear.  Nares are clear.  Mucous membranes pinks and moist.  Throat clear.  No oral lesions.
NECK:  Supple.
LUNGS:  Clear.
HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1, S2.  No murmur.


ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender.  Positive bowel sounds.  No guarding, no rebound.  No rashes seen.
EXTREMITIES:  Capillary refill is brisk.  Good distal pulses.
NEUROLOGIC:  Cranial nerves II through XII intact.  5/5 strength in all extremities.
SKIN:  Her umbilicus looks completely clear.  There is no evidence of erythema.  The area that the parents point where the blister was, appears to be well healed.  There is no evidence of lesion noted, at this time.  On her left temple area and just inside her hairline, there is a small vesicle.  It is not a pustule.  It is almost flat and it has minimal fluid underneath that.  There is no surrounding erythema, tenderness.  I have inspected the body, head to toe.  No other areas of lesions seen.
EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE: 
 I spoke with Infectious Disease, Dr. X.  He states, we should treat for MRSA with Bactrim p.o.  There has been no evidence of jaundice with this little girl.  Hibiclens and Bactroban.  I spoke with Dr. X's associate to call back after Dr. X recommended a Herpes culture be done, just for completeness and that was done.  Blood culture was done here to make sure she did not have MRSA in her blood, which clinically, she does not appear to have.  She was discharged in stable condition.
IMPRESSION: 
 Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection.
PLAN: 
  MRSA Instructions were given as above and antibiotics were prescribed.  To follow up with their doctor.










About This Sample:

              This 
MRSA Infection - ER Visit
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, 
blister
, 
mrsa
, methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus, 
staphylococcus aureus
, mrsa infection, 
infection
, 
erythema
, 
staphylococcus
, 
aureus












 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples