HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  
This is a 53-year-old man, who presented to emergency room with multiple complaints including pain from his hernia, some question of blood in his stool, nausea, and vomiting, and also left lower extremity pain.  At the time of my exam, he states that his left lower extremity pain has improved considerably.  He apparently had more significant paresthesias in the past and now he feels that the paresthesias have improved considerably.  He does have a history of multiple medical problems including atrial fibrillation, he is on Coumadin, which is currently subtherapeutic, multiple CVAs in the past, peripheral vascular disease, and congestive heart failure.  He has multiple chronic history of previous ischemia of his large bowel in the past.
PHYSICAL EXAM
VITAL SIGNS:  Currently his temperature is 98.2, pulse is 95, and blood pressure is 138/98.
HEENT:  Unremarkable.
LUNGS:  Clear.
CARDIOVASCULAR:  An irregular rhythm.
ABDOMEN:  Soft.
EXTREMITIES:  His upper extremities are well perfused.  He has palpable radial and femoral pulses.  He does not have any palpable pedal pulses in either right or left lower extremity.  He does have reasonable capillary refill in both feet.  He has about one second capillary refill on both the right hand and left lower extremities and his left foot is perhaps little cool, but it is relatively warm.  Apparently, this was lot worst few hours ago.  He describes significant pain and pallor, which he feels has improved and certainly clinically at this point does not appear to be as significant.


IMPRESSION AND PLAN: 
 This gentleman with a history of multiple comorbidities as detailed above had what sounds clinically like acute exacerbation of chronic peripheral vascular disease, essentially related to spasm versus a small clot, which may have been lysed to some extent.  He currently has a viable extremity and viable foot, but certainly has significant making compromised flow.  It is unclear to me whether this is chronic or acute, and whether he is a candidate for any type of intervention.  He certainly would benefit from an angiogram to better to define his anatomy and anticoagulation in the meantime.  Given his potential history of recent lower GI bleeding, he has been evaluated by GI to see whether or not he is a candidate for heparinization.  We will order an angiogram for the next few hours and followup on those results to better define his anatomy and to determine whether or not if any interventions are appropriate.  Again, at this point, he has no pain, relatively rapid capillary refill, and relatively normal motor function suggesting a viable extremity.  We will follow him along closely.








About This Sample:

              This 
Pain from Hernia - ER Consult
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, blood in stool, 
nausea
, capillary refill, 
angiogram
, 
hernia
, 
extremity












 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples