Home


Sitemap






Contact Us


Disclaimer















          Allergy / Immunology
        







          Autopsy
        







          Bariatrics
        







          Cardiovascular / Pulmonary
        







          Chiropractic
        







          Consult - History and Phy.
        







          Cosmetic / Plastic Surgery
        







          Dentistry
        







          Dermatology
        







          Diets and Nutritions
        







          Discharge Summary
        







          Emergency Room Reports
        







          Endocrinology
        







          ENT - Otolaryngology
        







          Gastroenterology
        







          General Medicine
        







          Hematology - Oncology
        







          Hospice - Palliative Care
        







          IME-QME-Work Comp etc.
        







          Lab Medicine - Pathology
        







          Letters
        







          Nephrology
        







          Neurology
        







          Neurosurgery
        







          Obstetrics / Gynecology
        







          Office Notes
        







          Ophthalmology
        







          Orthopedic
        







          Pain Management
        







          Pediatrics - Neonatal
        







          Physical Medicine - Rehab
        







          Podiatry
        







          Psychiatry / Psychology
        







          Radiology
        







          Rheumatology
        







          Sleep Medicine
        







          SOAP / Chart / Progress Notes
        







          Speech - Language
        







          Surgery
        







          Urology
        

















      Medical Specialty
    





          Allergy / Immunology
        



          Autopsy
        



          Bariatrics
        



          Cardiovascular / Pulmonary
        



          Chiropractic
        



          Consult - History and Phy.
        



          Cosmetic / Plastic Surgery
        



          Dentistry
        



          Dermatology
        



          Diets and Nutritions
        



          Discharge Summary
        



          Emergency Room Reports
        



          Endocrinology
        



          ENT - Otolaryngology
        



          Gastroenterology
        



          General Medicine
        



          Hematology - Oncology
        



          Hospice - Palliative Care
        



          IME-QME-Work Comp etc.
        



          Lab Medicine - Pathology
        



          Letters
        



          Nephrology
        



          Neurology
        



          Neurosurgery
        



          Obstetrics / Gynecology
        



          Office Notes
        



          Ophthalmology
        



          Orthopedic
        



          Pain Management
        



          Pediatrics - Neonatal
        



          Physical Medicine - Rehab
        



          Podiatry
        



          Psychiatry / Psychology
        



          Radiology
        



          Rheumatology
        



          Sleep Medicine
        



          SOAP / Chart / Progress Notes
        



          Speech - Language
        



          Surgery
        



          Urology
        









      Emergency Room Reports - Medical Reports
    




Abdominal Pain - Consult


Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit


Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit


Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction


Agitation - ER Visit


Air Under Diaphragm - Consult


Airway Compromise & Foreign Body - ER Visit


Altered Mental Status - ER Visit


Angina - Consult


Ankle pain


Ant Bait Exposure - ER Visit


Asthma in a 5-year-old


Blood In Toilet


Blood in Urine - ER Visit


Blood per Rectum


Bronchiolitis - 2-month-old


Chest Tube Insertion in ER


Closed Head Injury


Colostomy Failure


Consult - ICU Management


Consult/ER Report - OB/GYN


Cut on Foot - ER Visit


CVA Consult - ER Visit


Dental Pain


Dental Pain - Emergency Visit


Difficulty Breathing - ER Visit 


Ecstasy Ingestion - ER Visit


ER Report - Chest Pain


ER Report - Chest Pain & Fever


ER Report - COPD


ER Report - Rib Cage Pain


ER Report - Stomach Pain


ER Report - URI


Fall - ER Visit


Fall & Laceration


Feeling Dizzy - ER Visit 


Fiberoptic Bronchoscopy with Lavage


Foot Pain


Foreign Body - Right Nose


Gardnerella Bacterial Vaginosis


Gastrointestinal Bleed - ER Visit


Head Injury


Headache - Emergency Visit


Headache - Urgent Care Visit


Hematuria - ER Visit


Hepatic Encephalopathy


High PT-INR - ER Visit


Hip Fracture - ER Consult


Hydrocarbon Aspiration - ER Visit


Hyperbilirubinemia - 4-day-old


Hypertension - Consult


Intracranial aneurysm - ER Visit


Itchy Rash - ER Visit


Jaw Pain - ER Visit


Leaking Nephrostomy Tube


Left Lower Quadrant Pain - ER Visit


Mastoiditis - Discharge Summary


Melena - ICU Followup


Motor Vehicle Accident


MRSA Infection - ER Visit


Nausea - ER Visit


Nausea & Vomiting - ER Visit


Not Feeling Well - ER Visit


Pain from Hernia - ER Consult


Penile Injury


Penile Mass - Emergency Visit


Proctitis & Proctocolitis


Shone complex


Sickle Cell Anemia - ER Visit


Syncope - ER Visit


Syncope - ER Visit - 1


Testicular Pain


Toothache - ER Visit


Urgent Cardiac Cath


Viral Syndrome - ER Visit
































5043 Medical Transcription Samples in 40 Specialties














Educational Disclaimer:

              This is an 
anonymized medical transcription sample
 from 
Emergency Room Reports
 of 
Proctitis & Proctocolitis
 provided 
solely for educational and transcription training purposes
.
              It is 
not intended for medical diagnosis, treatment, or patient care.




No real patient information is included.














Sample Name:
 Proctitis & Proctocolitis


Medical Specialty:
 
			  

				Emergency Room Reports
			  








Description:
 Patient presents to the emergency department (ED) with rectal bleeding and pain on defecation.

                  (Medical Transcription Sample Report)
                






Intended for:

                  Medical transcription students, transcriptionists, and educators
                  practicing clinical documentation formats in Emergency Room Reports.
                


















PRESENTATION: 
 A 16-year-old male presents to the emergency department (ED) with rectal bleeding and pain on defecation.
HISTORY:
  A 16-year-old African American male presents to the ED with a chief complaint of rectal bleeding and pain on defecation.  The patient states that he was well until about three days prior to presentation when he first started to experience some pain when defecating.  The following day he noted increasing pain and first noted blood on the surface of his stool.  The pain worsened on the subsequent day with increasing bleeding as well as some mucopurulent anal discharge.  The patient denies any previous history of rectal bleeding or pain.  He also denies any previous sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and states that he was screened for HIV infection eight months ago and was negative.  The patient does state that he has not felt well for the past week.  He states that he had felt "feverish" on several occasions but has not taken his temperature.  He has also complained of some abdominal discomfort with nausea and diarrhea as well as generalized myalgias and fatigue.  He thinks he has lost a few pounds but has not been weighing himself to determine the exact amount of weight loss.
The patient states that he has been sexually active since age 13.  He admits to eight previous partners and states that he "usually" uses a condom.  On further questioning, the patient states that of his eight partners, three were female and five were male.  His most recent sexual partner was a 38-year-old man whom he has been with for the past six months.  He states that he has been tested for STDs in the past but states that he only gave urine and blood for the testing.  He is unaware of the HIV status of his partner but assumes that the partner is uninfected because he looks healthy.  The patient also admits to one episode of sexual abuse at the age of 8 by a friend of the family.  As the man was a member of the family's church, the patient never felt comfortable disclosing this to any of the adults in his life.  He is very concerned about disclosure of his sexual behavior to his family, as they have expressed very negative comments concerning men who have sex with men.  He is accessing care in the ED unaccompanied by an adult.
PHYSICAL EXAM: 
 Thin but non-toxic young man with clear discomfort.
Pulse = 105
RR = 23
BP = 120/62


HEENT:  Several areas of white plaque-like material on the buccal mucosa.
Neck:  Multiple anterior/posterior cervical nodes in both anterior and posterior chains- 1-2 cm in diameter.
Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.
Cardiac:  Quiet precordium.
Nl S1/S2 with a II/VI systolic murmur. 
Abdomen:  Soft without hepatosplenomegaly.
GU:  Tanner V male with no external penile lesions.
Lymph:  2-3 cm axillary nodes bilaterally.
1-2 cm epitrochlear nodes.
Multiple 1-2 cm inguinal nodes.


Rectal:  Extremely painful digital exam.
+ gross blood and mucous.
LABORATORY EVALUATION:
Hbg = 12.  5 gm/dL
Hct = 32%
WBC = 3.9 thou/µL
Platelets = 120,000 thou/µL
76% neutrophils
19% lymphocytes


1% eosinophils
4% monocytes
ALT = 82 U/L
AST= 90 U/L
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate = 90
Electrolytes = normal
Gram stain of anal swab:  numerous WBCs
DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS: 
 This patient is presenting with acute rectal pain with bleeding and anal discharge.  The patient also presents with some constitutional symptoms including fever, fatigue, abdominal discomfort, and adenopathy on physical examination.  The following are in the differential diagnosis:  Acute Proctitis and  Proctocolitis.


ACUTE HIV SEROCONVERSION: 
 This subject is sexually active and reports inconsistent condom use.  Gastrointestinal symptoms have recently been reported commonly in patients with a history of HIV seroconversion.  The rectal symptoms of bleeding and pain are not common with HIV, and an alternative diagnosis would be required.
PERIRECTAL ABSCESS: 
 A patient with a history of receptive anal intercourse is at risk for developing a perirectal abscess either from trauma or a concurrent STD.  The patient could experience more systemic symptoms with fever and malaise, as found with this patient.  However, the physical examination did not reveal the typical localized area of pain and edema.
DIAGNOSIS:  
The subject had rectal cultures obtained, which were positive for Neisseria gonorrhoeae.  An HIV ELISA was positive, as was the RNA PCR.
DISCUSSION: 
 This patient demonstrates a number of key issues to consider when caring for an adolescent or young adult.  First, the patient utilized the emergency department for care as opposed to identifying a primary care provider.  Although not ideal in many circumstances, testing for HIV infection is crucial when there is suspicion, since many newly diagnosed patients identify earlier contacts with health care providers when HIV counseling and testing were not performed.  Second, this young man has had both male and female sexual partners.  As young people explore their sexuality, asking about partners in an open, nonjudgmental manner without applying labels is integral to helping the young person discuss their sexual behaviors.  Assuming heterosexuality is a major barrier to disclosure for many young people who have same-sex attractions.  Third, screening for STDs must take into account sexual behaviors.  Although urine-based screening has expanded testing of young people, it misses anal and pharyngeal infections.  If a young person is only having receptive oral or anal intercourse, urine screening is insufficient to rule out STDs.  Fourth, this young man had both localized and systemic symptoms.  As his anal symptoms were most suggestive of a current STD, performing an HIV test should be part of the standard evaluation.  In addition, as acute infection is on the differential diagnosis, PCR testing should also be considered.  The care provided to this young man included the following.  He was treated presumptively for proctitis with both IM ceftriaxone as well as oral doxycycline to treat N gonorrhoeae and C trachomatis.  Ceftriaxone was chosen due to the recent reports of resistant N gonorrhoeae.  At the time of the diagnosis, the young man was given the opportunity to meet with the case manager from the adolescent-specific HIV program.  The case manager linked this young man directly to care after providing brief counseling and support.  The case manager maintained contact with the young man until his first clinical visit four days later.  Over the subsequent three months, the young man had two sets of laboratory testing to stage his HIV infection.
Set #1 CD4 T-lymphocyte count = 225 cells/mm3, 15% 
Quantitative RNA PCR = 75,000 copies/mL


Set #2 CD4 T-lymphocyte count = 385 cells/mm3, 21%
Quantitative RNA PCR = 12,000 copies/mL
The risks and benefits of ART were discussed over three clinical visits.  This patient agreed with not starting ART and following his CD4 and viral loads every three months.








About This Sample:

              This 
Proctitis & Proctocolitis
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, pain on defecation, 
rectal bleeding
, proctitis, proctocolitis, hiv elisa, pcr testing, hiv test, 
cd4
, 
hiv
, defecation, 
bleeding
, 
anal
, 
rectal