Home


Sitemap






Contact Us


Disclaimer















          Allergy / Immunology
        







          Autopsy
        







          Bariatrics
        







          Cardiovascular / Pulmonary
        







          Chiropractic
        







          Consult - History and Phy.
        







          Cosmetic / Plastic Surgery
        







          Dentistry
        







          Dermatology
        







          Diets and Nutritions
        







          Discharge Summary
        







          Emergency Room Reports
        







          Endocrinology
        







          ENT - Otolaryngology
        







          Gastroenterology
        







          General Medicine
        







          Hematology - Oncology
        







          Hospice - Palliative Care
        







          IME-QME-Work Comp etc.
        







          Lab Medicine - Pathology
        







          Letters
        







          Nephrology
        







          Neurology
        







          Neurosurgery
        







          Obstetrics / Gynecology
        







          Office Notes
        







          Ophthalmology
        







          Orthopedic
        







          Pain Management
        







          Pediatrics - Neonatal
        







          Physical Medicine - Rehab
        







          Podiatry
        







          Psychiatry / Psychology
        







          Radiology
        







          Rheumatology
        







          Sleep Medicine
        







          SOAP / Chart / Progress Notes
        







          Speech - Language
        







          Surgery
        







          Urology
        

















      Medical Specialty
    





          Allergy / Immunology
        



          Autopsy
        



          Bariatrics
        



          Cardiovascular / Pulmonary
        



          Chiropractic
        



          Consult - History and Phy.
        



          Cosmetic / Plastic Surgery
        



          Dentistry
        



          Dermatology
        



          Diets and Nutritions
        



          Discharge Summary
        



          Emergency Room Reports
        



          Endocrinology
        



          ENT - Otolaryngology
        



          Gastroenterology
        



          General Medicine
        



          Hematology - Oncology
        



          Hospice - Palliative Care
        



          IME-QME-Work Comp etc.
        



          Lab Medicine - Pathology
        



          Letters
        



          Nephrology
        



          Neurology
        



          Neurosurgery
        



          Obstetrics / Gynecology
        



          Office Notes
        



          Ophthalmology
        



          Orthopedic
        



          Pain Management
        



          Pediatrics - Neonatal
        



          Physical Medicine - Rehab
        



          Podiatry
        



          Psychiatry / Psychology
        



          Radiology
        



          Rheumatology
        



          Sleep Medicine
        



          SOAP / Chart / Progress Notes
        



          Speech - Language
        



          Surgery
        



          Urology
        









      Emergency Room Reports - Medical Reports
    




Abdominal Pain - Consult


Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit


Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit


Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction


Agitation - ER Visit


Air Under Diaphragm - Consult


Airway Compromise & Foreign Body - ER Visit


Altered Mental Status - ER Visit


Angina - Consult


Ankle pain


Ant Bait Exposure - ER Visit


Asthma in a 5-year-old


Blood In Toilet


Blood in Urine - ER Visit


Blood per Rectum


Bronchiolitis - 2-month-old


Chest Tube Insertion in ER


Closed Head Injury


Colostomy Failure


Consult - ICU Management


Consult/ER Report - OB/GYN


Cut on Foot - ER Visit


CVA Consult - ER Visit


Dental Pain


Dental Pain - Emergency Visit


Difficulty Breathing - ER Visit 


Ecstasy Ingestion - ER Visit


ER Report - Chest Pain


ER Report - Chest Pain & Fever


ER Report - COPD


ER Report - Rib Cage Pain


ER Report - Stomach Pain


ER Report - URI


Fall - ER Visit


Fall & Laceration


Feeling Dizzy - ER Visit 


Fiberoptic Bronchoscopy with Lavage


Foot Pain


Foreign Body - Right Nose


Gardnerella Bacterial Vaginosis


Gastrointestinal Bleed - ER Visit


Head Injury


Headache - Emergency Visit


Headache - Urgent Care Visit


Hematuria - ER Visit


Hepatic Encephalopathy


High PT-INR - ER Visit


Hip Fracture - ER Consult


Hydrocarbon Aspiration - ER Visit


Hyperbilirubinemia - 4-day-old


Hypertension - Consult


Intracranial aneurysm - ER Visit


Itchy Rash - ER Visit


Jaw Pain - ER Visit


Leaking Nephrostomy Tube


Left Lower Quadrant Pain - ER Visit


Mastoiditis - Discharge Summary


Melena - ICU Followup


Motor Vehicle Accident


MRSA Infection - ER Visit


Nausea - ER Visit


Nausea & Vomiting - ER Visit


Not Feeling Well - ER Visit


Pain from Hernia - ER Consult


Penile Injury


Penile Mass - Emergency Visit


Proctitis & Proctocolitis


Shone complex


Sickle Cell Anemia - ER Visit


Syncope - ER Visit


Syncope - ER Visit - 1


Testicular Pain


Toothache - ER Visit


Urgent Cardiac Cath


Viral Syndrome - ER Visit
































5043 Medical Transcription Samples in 40 Specialties














Educational Disclaimer:

              This is an 
anonymized medical transcription sample
 from 
Emergency Room Reports
 of 
Syncope - ER Visit
 provided 
solely for educational and transcription training purposes
.
              It is 
not intended for medical diagnosis, treatment, or patient care.




No real patient information is included.














Sample Name:
 Syncope - ER Visit


Medical Specialty:
 
			  

				Emergency Room Reports
			  








Description:
 Patient with a history of coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass grafting presented to the emergency room following a syncopal episode.

                  (Medical Transcription Sample Report)
                






Intended for:

                  Medical transcription students, transcriptionists, and educators
                  practicing clinical documentation formats in Emergency Room Reports.
                


















REASON FOR CONSULTATION:
  Syncope.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: 
 The patient is a 78-year-old lady followed by Dr. X in our practice with history of coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass grafting in 2005 presented to the emergency room following a syncopal episode.  According to the patient and the daughter who was with her, she was shopping when she felt abdominal discomfort with nausea, profuse sweating, and passed out.  As soon as she was laid on the floor and her leg raised up, she woke up with no post-event confusion.  According to the daughter, she has had episodes of weakness, but no syncope.  She has blood pressure medications and has had some postural hypotensions, which has been managed by Dr. X. She also states there was a history of pulmonary embolism and the presentation at that time was very similar when she had a syncopal episode.  At that time, she was admitted at Hospital, had a V/Q scan, which was positive for PE.  Initial V/Q scan done at Hospital was negative.  She was anticoagulated with Coumadin resulting in severe GI bleed.  Anticoagulation was stopped and an IVC filter was placed at that time.  She has a history of malignant hypertension and has had a renal stent placed in February 2007.  She also has peripheral vascular disease with stent placements.  There is a history of spinal canal stenosis and iron deficiency anemia, currently on Procrit injections every two weeks done by Dr. Y. The patient denies any chest pain or any worsening of any shortness of breath.  There are no acute EKG changes or cardiac enzyme elevations.  She has had no stress test done following a bypass surgery.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY
1.  Coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass grafting.
2.  History of mitral regurgitation, unable to repair the valve.
3.  History of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, on amiodarone.
4.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
5.  Hypertension.


6.  Hyperlipidemia.
7.  History of abdominal aortic aneurysm.
8.  Carotid artery disease, mild-to-moderate on recent carotid ultrasound.
9.  Peripheral vascular disease.
10.  Hypothyroidism.
11.  Pulmonary embolism.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY
1.  Coronary artery bypass grafting.
2.  Hysterectomy.


3.  IVC filter.
4.  Tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy.
5.  Cosmetic surgery to breast and abdomen.
HOME MEDICATIONS
1.  Aspirin 81 mg once a day.
2.  Klor-Con 10 mEq once a day.
3.  Lasix 40 mg once a day.
4.  Levothyroxine 125 mcg once a day.
5.  Lisinopril 20 mg once a day.


6.  Pacerone 200 mg once a day.
7.  Protonix 40 mg once a day.
8.  Toprol 50 mg once a day.
9.  Vitamin B once a day.
10.  Zetia 10 mg once a day.
11.  Zyrtec 10 mg once a day.
ALLERGIES:
  CODEINE, ERYTHROMYCIN, SULFA, VICODIN, AND ZOCOR.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS


CONSTITUTIONAL:  The patient denies any fevers, chills, recent weight gain or weight loss.  She has had abdominal symptoms with diarrhea.
EYES:  Decreased visual acuity.
ENT:  Sinus drainage.
CARDIOVASCULAR:  As described above.  Denies any chest pains.
RESPIRATORY:  He has chronic shortness of breath.  No cough or sputum production.
GI:  History of reflux symptoms.
GU:  No history of dysuria or hematuria.
ENDOCRINE:  No history of diabetes.
MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Denies arthritis, but has leg pain.
SKIN:  No history of rash.


PSYCHIATRIC:  No history of anxiety or depression.
CNS:  History of strokes and MRI, but no focal deficits.
Review of other systems is essentially unremarkable.
FAMILY HISTORY: 
 Father died at the age of 75 following a motor vehicle accident.  Mother died at the age of 32, no known heart problems.  One brother died of cancer, one sister with cancer.
SOCIAL HISTORY: 
 History of tobacco use, smoked for 20 years, and quit 30 years ago.  Alcohol one to two drinks monthly.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
GENERAL:  Elderly lady in no acute distress.
VITAL SIGNS:  Heart rate 50 to 60s, weight is 180 pounds, temperature 98.6, blood pressure 155/57, and O2 saturations 98% on room air.  Telemetry shows sinus rhythm.
HEENT:  Pupils are equal and reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular movements are intact.
NECK:  Had no jugular venous distention.  Right carotid bruit.
HEART:  Apical impulse is normal.  First and second sounds heard normally.  He had a soft ejection systolic murmur.
LUNGS:  Normal chest expansion, with clear to auscultation bilaterally.
ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, no palpable organomegaly.
EXTREMITIES:  No edema, clubbing or cyanosis.
CNS:  The patient is alert oriented x3, no focal neurological deficits.
LABORATORY DATA:
  EKG shows sinus rhythm with right bundle-branch block, rate of 60.  Hemoglobin 9.6, hematocrit 29.3, and platelets 326,000.  WBC 7.2.  CK 67 and 59.  Troponin negative x 2.  Sodium 137, potassium 4.4, chloride 101, bicarbonate 28, BUN 19, creatinine 2.1, and glucose 112.  LFTs were negative.  BNP was 366.
DIAGNOSTIC DATA: 
 CT showed chronic microvascular ischemic changes.  Ultrasound of the abdomen showed a small abdominal aortic aneurysm of 3.3 cm, no change from 2002.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN
1.  Syncope, suspect vasovagal in the setting of dehydration due to diuretics, diarrhea, and her blood medications.  A recent echocardiogram has been done, which showed mildly depressed left ventricular systolic function, ejection fraction between 45% and 50%.  At this time, we would rehydrate with IV fluids and reassess.
2.  Coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass surgery, clinically stable with no angina.
3.  History of pulmonary embolism in the past with presentation similar to this.  In view of this history although her clinical presentation is atypical, would do a V/Q scan to exclude this.
4.  History of iron deficiency anemia, probably secondary to chronic kidney disease followed by Dr. Y, receiving Procrit injections.
5.  Chronic kidney disease, baseline creatinine usually in the 1.8 to 1.9 range, today it is 2.1.  We will reassess after IV fluids.
6.  Hypertension, continue current medications.
7.  Hypothyroidism, on replacement.








About This Sample:

              This 
Syncope - ER Visit
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, 
ejection fraction
, 
coronary artery bypass grafting
, 
coronary artery disease
, v/q scan, 
bypass grafting
, 
artery bypass
, 
coronary artery
, 
bypass
, 
ivc
, 
chronic
, 
syncope
, 
post
, 
coronary