REASON FOR VISIT:
  Syncope.
HISTORY:
  The patient is a 75-year-old lady who had a syncopal episode last night.  She went to her room with a bowl of cereal and then blacked out for a few seconds and then when she woke up, the cereal was on the floor.  She did not have any residual deficit.  She had a headache at that time.  She denies chest pains or palpitations.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 
 Arthritis, first episode of high blood pressure today.  She had a normal stress test two years ago.
MEDICATIONS: 
 Her medication is one dose of hydrochlorothiazide today because her blood pressure was so high at 150/70.
SOCIAL HISTORY: 
 She does not smoke and she does not drink.  She lives with her daughter.


PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL:  Lady in no distress.
VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 172/91, came down to 139/75, heart rate 91, and respirations 20.  Afebrile.
HEENT:  Head is normal.
NECK:  Supple.
LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation and percussion.
HEART:  No S3, no S4, and no murmurs.
ABDOMEN:  Soft.
EXTREMITIES:  Lower extremities, no edema.


DIAGNOSTIC DATA: 
 Her EKG shows sinus rhythm with nondiagnostic Q-waves in the inferior leads.
ASSESSMENT:  
Syncope.
PLAN:  
She had a CT scan of the brain that was negative today.  The blood pressure is high.  We will start Maxzide.  We will do an outpatient Holter and carotid Doppler study.  She has had an echocardiogram along with the stress test before and it was normal.  We will do an outpatient followup.








About This Sample:

              This 
Syncope - ER Visit - 1
 report demonstrates 
Emergency Room Reports
 transcription formatting and clinical note structure. Terminology, medications, and documentation style reflect
              commonly used formats for training purposes and may vary by provider,
              institution, or region. Drug names and treatment choices etc. may not reflect current clinical guidelines and are used here only as part of the historical example.
              


This is not medical advice.









                Go Back to Emergency Room Reports
              










Related Samples in Emergency Room Reports:


Abdominal Pain - Consult
Abrasions & Lacerations - ER Visit
Accidental Celesta Ingestion - ER Visit
Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction
Agitation - ER Visit
























Keywords:
 emergency room reports, residual deficit, 
headache
, 
ct scan
, 
syncopal episode
, 
stress test
, 
blood pressure
, 
syncope












 


















Legal & Usage Notice:
 These transcribed medical transcription sample reports and examples are provided by various users and are for reference purpose only. MTHelpLine does not certify accuracy and quality of sample reports. These transcribed medical transcription sample reports may include some uncommon or unusual formats; this would be due to the preference of the dictating physician. All names and dates have been changed (or removed) to keep confidentiality. Any resemblance of any type of name or date or place or anything else to real world is purely incidental. Always refer to current clinical resources and your supervising provider for real-world patient care.
    












Home
 |
        
MT911
 |
        
MTDictionary
 |
        
MTHelpLine




Sitemap
 |
        
Contact Us
 |
        
Disclaimer















        Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Reports and Examples